upsc cse exam pattern

The pattern of UPSC examination is officially divided into two stages called Preliminary and Main Examination while in practice, it is a three-stage exam.

As per the IAS exam pattern, candidates who clear the Prelims are eligible for Mains and candidates who clear the Main reach the interview stage.

The three stages of the IAS exam are Prelims, Mains and Personality Test.









sylabus

UPSC Prelims Syllabus

Syllabus for GS Paper (Prelims Paper I)
Current events of national and international importance.
History of India and Indian National Movement.
Indian and World Geography-Physical, Social, Economic Geography of India and the World.
Indian Polity and Governance – Constitution, Political System, Panchayati Raj, Public Policy, Rights Issues, etc.
Economic and Social Development – Sustainable Development, Poverty, Inclusion, Demographics, Social Sector initiatives, etc.
General issues on Environmental Ecology, Biodiversity, and Climate Change – that do not require subject specialisation.
General Science


Syllabus for CSAT Paper (Prelims Paper-II)
Comprehension

Interpersonal skills including communication skills
Logical reasoning and analytical ability
Decision-making and problem solving
General mental ability
Basic numeracy (numbers and their relations, orders of magnitude, etc.) (Class X level), Data interpretation (charts, graphs, tables, data sufficiency, etc. – Class X level)


UPSC Mains Syllabus
Paper	Subject	Marks
Paper – I	Essay (can be written in the medium of the candidate’s choice)	250
Paper – II	General Studies – I (Indian Heritage & Culture, History & Geography of the World & Society)	250
Paper – III	General Studies – II (Governance, Constitution, Polity, Social Justice & International Relations)	250
Paper – IV	General Studies – III (Technology, Economic Development, Biodiversity, Security & Disaster Management)	250
Paper – V	General Studies – IV (Ethics, Integrity & Aptitude)	250
Paper – VI	Optional Subject – Paper I	250
Paper – VII	Optional Subject – Paper II	250





eligibility 
post
exam date

